


Network Working Group                                         O. Gsenger
Internet-Draft                                                March 2007
Expires: September 2, 2007


                      Anycast TCP stream relaying
               draft-gsenger-anycast-tcp-stream-relay-00

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on September 2, 2007.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2007).















Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft         Anycast TCP stream relaying            March 2007


Abstract

   The anycast tunneling (anytun) protocol defines a protocol used for
   communication between unicast clients and anycast servers.  It can be
   used for tunneling information between 2 clients over the servers or
   in relay mode to transmit data form the client over the servers to a
   third party not using the protocol and vice versa.












































Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft         Anycast TCP stream relaying            March 2007


1.  full anycast tcp

1.1.  Introduction

   TCP is statefull, this is a big problem, because every anycast server
   has to know the tcp state.  The TCP state has to be synced between
   the servers, that meens a lot of overhead.  To keep this amount small
   and therefor make anycast TCP connections efficient some tricks MUST
   be used.  This is considered to be a real hack, so it is not
   recommendid to use this mode unless it is really necessary.  It might
   for instance be necessary to build connection trough special kind of
   NAT routers or firewalls.

1.2.  Reducing syncronisaton overhead

1.2.1.  Fragmentation

   The only way of fully supporting fragmentation would be to syncronise
   fragments between all anycast servers.  This is considered to be to
   much overhead, so there are two non perfect solutions for this
   problems.  Either fragmentation HAS TO be disabled or if not all
   fragments arrive at the same server the ip datagramm HAS TO be
   discarded.  As routing changes are not expected to occure very
   frequently, the ip datagram will get retransmitted by TCP and all
   fragments will arrive at the new server.

1.2.2.  sequence number

   It is nessarary to send tcp segments with a correct sequence number,
   that appear to come from the same host, in order to get a valid
   connecton to the client.  Syncronisation of sequence numbers would
   mean to much overhead, so it hast to be provided by the relayed data.
   The relayed data from the anycast serveres point of view, consits of
   multible datastream, each directed from one client to anotherIn
   tunneling mode all anytun packets from the client

1.3.  keep alive message request

   Most NAT routers need a tcp connection to transmit some packets once
   in while to stay open.  In full anycast tcp mode anytun hast to
   predict the tcp state including the sequence number.  Synconisation
   of the sequence number would be to much overhead, so a keep alive
   intervall is agreed.  This interval is used to calculate the sequemce
   number.







Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft         Anycast TCP stream relaying            March 2007


Appendix A.  The appan


















































Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft         Anycast TCP stream relaying            March 2007


2.  References

   [1]  Huitema, C., "An Anycast Prefix for 6to4 Relay Routers",
        RFC 3068, June 2001.















































Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft         Anycast TCP stream relaying            March 2007


Author's Address

   Othmar Gsenger
   Sporgasse 6
   Graz  8010
   AT

   Phone:
   Email: otti@wirdorange.org
   URI:   http://anytun.org/









































Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft         Anycast TCP stream relaying            March 2007


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2007).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.


Acknowledgment

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is provided by the IETF
   Administrative Support Activity (IASA).





Gsenger                 Expires September 2, 2007               [Page 7]

